---
layout: default
title: nexial-core 1.1 (2018-05-02)
parent: release
tags: release nexial-core 1.1
comments: true
---

### <a href="https://github.com/nexiality/nexial-core/releases/tag/nexial-core-v1.1_0027" class="external-link" target="_nexial_link">Release 1.1</a>
2018-05-02


##### Please Note
If you have test scripts created in Sentry, be sure to `bin/sentry2nexial.cmd` script for your project **PRIOR** to 
using with Nexial.


### General
- Now supports [BAI2 Expression](../expressions/BAI2expression) to parse and validate text files with `BAI2` file format.
- Upgraded to <a href="https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/releases/tag/v1.2.31" class="external-link" target="_nexial_link">Kotlin 1.2.31</a>
- Enabled [`project.properties`](../userguide/UnderstandingProjectStructure#artifactprojectproperties) setting to take effect 
  even when no site-wide Nexial setting jar is found.
- Performance improvement on reading Excel files:
  - Delete "temp" Excel files ONLY if they were opened as duplicates (mostly Windows).
  - Implemented functional calls to eliminate excessive worksheet reads.
- Add new System variable, [`nexial.lastOutcome`](../systemvars/index#nexial.lastOutcome), to capture the link to 
  the output generated by a command.  Such output are generated shown as link subsequent to the associated command in 
  the output file.  With this new System variable, it is possible to read and automate on the content of the same file.
- Updated [Email Notification](../systemvars/index#nexial.enableEmail) code to send out email notification at the 
  end of an execution.  To enable notification, be sure to read up on 
  [nexial.enableEmail](../systemvars/index#nexial.enableEmail).
- **Output-to-Cloud** fixes and enhancements:
  - Add additional checks to ensure required settings are appropriately configured before use.
  - Any "output to cloud" code routine could fail-fast if improper/missing S3 connectivity is encountered.
- Logging:
  - Reduce log verbosity for 3rd-party libraries.
  - Implemented "delayed" logging strategy so that more logs can be captured in execution-specific log files.
    - When Nexial first started, all file-based logs are pointing to `${java.io.tmpdir}`.
    - When the "output" directory is determined, file-based logs are redirected to `${out}/logs` directory.
- Unit testing:
  - Added/fixed multiple unit tests.
  - Skip pause when running Nexial under unit testing.
- Utilities/batch files:
  - Fixed the "extra line created" issue while performing data variable renaming via 
    `bin/nexial-variable-update.[sh|cmd]`. 
  - Enhanced `bin/*.[sh|cmd]` scripts so that they can be run outside of the `bin/` directory.
  - Enhanced `bin/nexial-project.[sh|cmd]` to support project directory not found under the standard `C:\projects\` or 
    `/Users/<username>/projects` directory.

### [Nexial Filter](../flowcontrols/filter)
- [Nexial Filter](../flowcontrols/filter) now supported in flow control as well as CSV Expression (since 1.0).
- Added more conditions to Nexial Filter. The [complete list](../flowcontrols/filter#specification) is:
  - `>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, `=`, `!=`, `is`/`in`, `is not`/`not in`, `contain`, `start with`, `end with`, `is undefined`, 
    `is defined`, `has length of`, `is empty`, `is not empty`, `match` (regex).
- Nexial filter now uses pipe (`|`) as separator for item listing, which should be enclosed in `[...]` unless there's 
  only 1 item.

#### [Nexial Expression](../expressions/index)
- Uniformed handling of numeric values:
  - Defaults to using scale of 25 (i.e. 25 decimal places) when dealing with double.
  - Defaults to rounding "up" when dealing with double.
  - Currently applied to [LIST](../expressions/LISTexpression) and [NUMBER](../expressions/NUMBERexpression).

  ###### [BAI2 Expression]
  - [BAI2 Expression](../expressions/BAI2expression) is a new expression added to support parsing and validating text files with `BAI2` file format.
  - Supports files in compliance with [BAI Standard Specifications](https://www.bai.org/docs/default-source/libraries/site-general-downloads/cash_management_2005.pdf).

  ###### [CSV expression]
  - [CSV » `htmlTable`](../expressions/CSVexpression#htmltable): **NEW** operation to render CSV content into a HTML table.
  - [CSV » `groupCount(columns)`](../expressions/CSVexpression#groupcount(columns)): **NEW** operation to create new 
    CSV with count information of columns with same data.
  - [CSV » `groupSum(columns)`](../expressions/CSVexpression#groupsum(columns)): **NEW** operation to render new CSV 
    with sum information grouped by columns with same data.
  - [CSV &raquo; `removeColumns(namesorindices)`](../expressions/CSVexpression#removecolumns(namesorindices)): now 
    supports one or many columns referenced by name or index (zero-based); separated by comma.

  ###### [EXCEL expression]
  - fixed [`clear((range))`](../expressions/EXCELexpression#clear(range)); code was previously missing last column.

  ###### [NUMBER expression]
  - fixed [NUMBER expression](../expressions/NUMBERexpression) when dealing with whole number.  Previous 
    implementation "eagerly" converts whole number to decimal number, but this is now fixed.

#### [base commands](../commands/base/index)
- [base &raquo; `verbose(text)`](../commands/base/verbose(text))
  - Reduced unnecessary console logging.
  - Add original script parameter as comment when generating output for this command.
- [base  &raquo; `macro(file,sheet,name)`](../commands/base/macro(file,sheet,name))
  - Honors the flow control defined at the calling scripts.  If the step that invokes the macro call has flow
    control(s) defined, those flow control(s) will impact to the import macro steps.
- [base &raquo; `clear(vars)`](../commands/base/clear(vars))
  - **NEW** command to automate the clearing of one or more variables.  Useful for managing memory footprint and to
    reduce variable conflict.

#### [csv commands](../commands/csv/index)
- [csv &raquo; `compareExtended(var,profile,expected,actual)`](../commands/csv/compareExtended(var,profile,expected,actual)) 
  now supports "ignore fields" so that certain fields can be ignored for comparison (and still be included in the 
  comparison result).

#### [desktop commands](../commands/desktop/index)
- desktop &raquo; `getRowCount(var)` renamed to [desktop &raquo; `saveRowCount(var)`](../commands/desktop/saveRowCount(var)) 
  to improve readability.
- desktop &raquo; `scanTable(var,name)` renamed to [desktop &raquo; `useTable(var,name)`](../commands/desktop/useTable(var,name))
  to improve readability.

#### [external commands](../commands/external/index)
- Expose the filename of the output file generated by running `external &raquo; runProgram(programAndParams` command 
  via a system variable [`nexial.external.output`](../systemvars/index#nexial.external.output).

#### [jms commands](../commands/jms/index)
- Fixed bad reflection class in `WebSphereMQJmsClientConfig`.  Both `BeanUtils` and `MethodUtils` failed since they 
  mistakenly took the `MQConnectionFactory` as a `Map` instance.

#### [mail commands](../commands/mail/index)
- Updated command to use `profile` for configuring mail connectivity.  This change now allows for multiple mail server
  configurations within one execution.

#### [number commands](../commands/number/index)
- number &raquo; `assertBetween(num,lower,upper)` renamed to 
  [number &raquo; `assertBetween(num,min,max)`](../commands/number/assertBetween(num,min,max)) to improve readability.

#### [step commands](../commands/step/index)
- [step &raquo; `observe(prompt)`](../commands/step/observe(prompt)): fixed output to render response as second parameter.

#### [web commands](../commands/web/index)
- shipped with 
  <a href="https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/blob/release/CHANGES.md#0201-2018-04-06" class="external-link" target="_nexial_link">geckodriver 0.20.1 (Firefox)</a>:
  - Avoid attempting to kill Firefox process that has stopped.	
  - With the change to allow Firefox enough time to shut down in 0.20.0, geckodriver started unconditionally killing 
    the process to reap its exit status. This caused geckodriver to inaccurately report a successful Firefox shutdown 
    as a failure.
  - The regression should not have caused any functional problems, but the termination cause and the exit status are 
    now reported correctly.

#### [ws commands](../commands/ws/index)
- fixed [ws &raquo; `oauth()`](../commands/ws/oauth(var,url,auth)) to support OAuth response that contains multiple 
  entitlements, products, etc. (essentially JSON array).

